Mieshie Jenkins sees the third floor of her house as a perfect getaway spot.

A finished attic consisting of a bedroom and full bathroom, it’s possibly the spot in her house at 351 Johnson Ave., where she spends the most time. It’s quiet, roomy, and filled with natural light from the three skylights placed throughout it.

“It’s a nice little woman cave,” Jenkins quipped.

Though she’s lived in the house since 2006, she’s selling the 2,896-square-foot Colonial, which is listed at $319,000. Jenkins said the home has served her family well, but it’s time to move on.

“It’s a great family home,” she said.

Built in 1885, the Johnson Avenue house appears to be a fairly modest affair from the outside. Painted pale yellow, it looks like a perfectly pleasant, small New England cottage. But, on the inside, the home appears to gain dimension, with large rooms, including a sizable kitchen that opens up to a full deck and a fenced-in backyard. There’s also an above-ground pool, though it hasn’t been opened up for the season yet.

The house is more than 100 years old, and, while it isn’t loaded with historical detail like some homes of the era, it does have some classical touches. It has exposed beams in the ceilings throughout, including in the kitchen (though Jenkins isn’t 100 percent sure whether they were part of the original construction or added later).

And at least some of the original wide-plank hardwood floors are still in the house, most notably in the main second-floor bedroom.

The house has a total of four bedrooms, and two and a half baths. But Jenkins is most fond of that master bedroom on the third floor. Well, that master bedroom basically is the third floor. That’s what makes it a great place to read, think and generally get away from it all.

The bathroom has a Jacuzzi tub and a Jack and Jill sink, and the bedroom is filled with storage. There’s a closet behind the bathroom and some little storage cubbies that Jenkins has turned into homes for shoes and other items, though she pointed out that one of her shoe storage spaces could be converted into a fireplace.

But the spacious “woman cave” is just part of what Jenkins loves about the house.

“The rooms here are just so large,” she said. “This house has so much space.”

