TRUMBULL — The door leading from the kitchen to the back porch area of 366 Shelton Road is listing agent Terri Vreeland’s favorite part of the house.

It’s nothing out of the ordinary for a house built in the 1800s, but it is remarkable for its simplicity — just a few boards, painted white, with a sliding lock and a ring of vintage-looking keys thrown on it for an extra rustic touch. It looks like something out of an episode of “Little House on the Prairie.”

“It’s just a really cool door,” Vreeland said.

The 2,442-square-foot Colonial is listed at $339,000. Town records show that the house was built in 1800, but according to a source at the Trumbull Historical Society, a professional circa dater hired by the Nichols Farm Study Commission in 1977 determined the house was built circa 1850.

The house is set on 1.38 acres of property in the Nichols section of Trumbull. The section is named for the Nichols family, who established the first permanent settlement in Trumbull in 1690. In 1889, the Nichols Improvement Association was founded to improve the village. The association continues today, as a nonprofit organization charged with preserving the heritage and character of the community.

Though the Shelton Road home has a new roof, gutters and many modern improvements, Vreeland said its columns, moldings and other architectural features harken back to its roots in the 1800s.

According to historical society records, some of the home’s original features include the windows at the front of the house and an old panel exterior at the rear panel door. The house also features many of its original clapboards.

Vreeland said the house also had a barn on the property that was likely part of the original construction, but it was lost during hurricane Sandy. It has since been replaced with a shed.

Other period details in the home include the tin ceiling in the living room, beamed ceilings throughout the house and stained glass accents in one of the windows.

The home has four bedrooms and two bathrooms. Vreeland said, though it’s being used as a single family home now, it has been a two-family house in the past and could be converted to include an in-law unit or a rental space.

Vreeland said the home is spacious with lots of natural light. But, obviously, one of its major selling points is its old-school rustic charm.

“If these walls could talk,” she said.
