No ethically-trained software engineer would ever consent to write a DestroyBaghdad procedure. Basic professional ethics would instead require him to write a DestroyCity procedure, to which Baghdad could be given as a parameter.” — Nathaniel Borenstein
Uber used software to illegally operate in hundreds of cities
Two hours ago, The New York Times broke the biggest story about Uber yet. Since 2013, Uber has used a sophisticated tool to undermine local law enforcement at every turn.

The program is called Greyball and it works like this:

In cities where Uber is illegal — of which there are still many — Greyball can identify undercover police who are trying hail Uber drivers, bust their drivers, and impound their vehicles.
When these police open up the Uber app and try to hail a ride, they see phantom Uber cars driving around the city, but they’re never actually able to get a ride.
Since the cars that show up in the app aren’t real, and the police can’t get a driver to pick them up, they can’t bust anyone.

The end result is that Uber can basically ignore the fact that a city hasn’t yet approved ride sharing, and start operating there anyway.

Take a moment to let that sink in. Uber is — thanks to its superior software — essentially above the law.

The way they identify these riders is actually quite genius. Based on the credit cards the police use, Uber can cross-check merchant databases against public servant databases, and figure out who’s likely a cop, then “hell-ban” them from being able to use Uber.

The police officers are never able to successfully hail a ride, but as far as they know, they’re just stuck in the wrong place at the wrong time. That’s how Uber was able to perpetrate this scam for years, until a few Uber engineers with guilty consciences came forward to blow the whistle.

Zenefits used software to fraudulently certify hundreds of insurance agents

Zenefits is a company that provides software to businesses, then tries to up-sell them on insurance packages.

In 2016, it was revealed that their CEO, Parker Conrad had developed a tool that helped Zenefits agents cheat their way through the licensing process.

With the help of their custom-built browser extension, Zenefits agents were able to skip most of a legally-required 52-hour online course.
